---
title: "On being late for Late Bird"
date: 2019-02-28
tweet: "@ThinkAboutConf #thinkabout19"
author_twitter: "@hldrbm"
author: Jakob
draft: true

---

Beginning of January we published our first [blog
post](/blog/learning-from-a-ticket-price-adventure.html) about finding the
right ticket price. Now, after the end of early bird sales, we learned some new
things. Let's dive into those!

Think About! is a two day tech conference about technology, design and their
impact on society. It will take place in a cozy cinema in Cologne, Germany.

## What happened so far?

November 15th we launched our ticket sales. This date was preceded by a long
and pretty exhausting journey we embarked on. The designation of this journey
was the finding of a reasonable ticket price and a sensible early bird sales
deadline.

Early bird sales ended on 15th of February and we can say it was a great
success. We sold more tickets than anticipated and reached about one third of
our desired ticket sales goal. This is a pretty amazing result and it shows the
community's interest in an event like Think About!.

## What we learned so far?

Of course, bootstrapping a conference makes you learn a million things along
the way. But in regard to ticket pricing and ticket sales we learned some
pretty interesting things, and one of those surprised us most:

> People buy as late as possible

Amazingly, most of the early birds tickets were sold in the last
one-and-a-half weeks before the deadline. While this does not sound surprising
in retrospect, we did not anticipate this at such a scale.
to the deadline).

## Show me the Data!

The net numbers of our budget are by no means affected. We sold about a third
of our sales goal in the first third of our ticket sales campaign. Could not be
better. But we did not anticipate the time distribution of those sales. A
simplified forecast based on the early birds would look roughly like this:

![Graph that depicts ticket sales over time](/assets/images/blog/late-bird/diagram.png)

This basically translates into the fact that we will only sell a few tickets
until the beginning of May when the final run starts (the conference takes
place at the 23rd and 24th of May).

## How are we affected by this?

The actual costs for making the Think About! happen are unfortunately distributed in an unpleasantly different shape:

![Graph that depicts ticket sales over time](/assets/images/blog/late-bird/diagram2.png)

By the end of April, we will have several deposit payments (among others the
caterer, the venue and the speaker hotels). Those sum up to a five-figure
payment.

Our current forecast basically tells us, that we will have to advance these
payments from mid of April until end of May, which is a formidable challenge
for a bootstrapped startup without any venture capital.

## Well then?

So the only way to prevent us from committing such a huge risk-investment
upfront is to the same which almost every tech conference does: introducing a
late bird deadline, similar to early bird. A late bird ticket category means,
that the regular tickets will only be available up until a certain date. From
that date on, only late bird tickets can be bought which are a bit more
expensive.

This well established sales pattern gives the conference organizers a much
better predictability: The sales distribution gets a bit more even and the
organizers have the ability to move the majority of the ticket sales in front
of the hugest deposit payments. Introducing a late bird deadline changes our
forecast like this:

![Graph that depicts ticket sales over time](/assets/images/blog/late-bird/diagram3.png)

Looking at this new forecast helped us to understand the reasons why most tech
conferences opt for a late bird in addition to an early bird sales. Some even
start a super early bird sale even further away from the event.

## On Dark Marketing Patterns

We see early bird as a clear advantage for both parties, the potential
attendees in their role as buyer and the conference organizers in their role as
sellers.

The buyers get a significant discount for free and the sellers get financial
predictability and a first spike in their cash flow which is needed for
marketing and planning.

Late bird on the other hand has a bit of a [Dark
Pattern](https://darkpatterns.org/) smell. It can feel like an artificially
generated scarcity to coerce people into buying. This slightly cheesy feeling
was the main reason why we initially stepped away from late bird entirely.

We needed the experience of early bird sales distribution to really understand,
why so many conferences go for more than one deadline while selling their
tickets.

![A guinea pig learning new things](/assets/images/blog/late-bird/learning.gif)

## Reaching the Destination of our second Journey

It goes without saying, we are not happy with introducing a late bird deadline
after early bird and regular sales already have started a few months ago. But
our forecast showed that it is either this or a huge financial risk on our
side. And instead of risking a fantastic Think About! Conference we decided to
go for the lesser of those two evils.

It is important to know that we did not change the regular ticket prices of 500
EUR. Those prices where the basis of every early bird ticket buyer and thus can
not be changed anymore. Instead we opted for a price increase from 500 EUR to
600 EUR on the 16th of April. So until and including the 15th of April you can
get your ticket for the regular price of 500 EUR.

We are happy about all the amazing people that believe in our cause to make not
only the tech industry but also a part of our society a better and more
inclusive place. **Thank you** so much for supporting us by buying tickets, telling
your friends, subscribing to out newsletter or simply following us on twitter.
Without all of you, we would not exist.

In the spirit of user feedback, don't hesitate to drop us [a
message](mailto:kontakt@think-about.io) and let us know what you think.
