---
title: "Learning from a Ticket Price Adventure"
date: 2018-12-02
tweet: "Great article about the ticket price challenges for a newcomer conference @ThinkAboutConf"
author_twitter: "@hldrbm"
author: Jakob

---

November 15th we officially launched the [ticket sales](/en/tickets.html) of
the first installment of the Think About! Conference. This is a summary of our
journey towards finding the "right" ticket price.

## The Challenge

Calculating the price for a conference ticket is an awkward task. On the one
hand, a higher price means less risk and more flexibility for the organizer. On
the other, the lower the price, the more accessible the conference is to a
diverse crowd.

**"How expensive should a ticket for my conference be?"**

There is no one-size-fits-all answer to this question -- on the contrary, a
multitude of factors have to be considered in order to reach a satisfying
answer.

This question shall be the starting point of our journey towards a reasonable
ticket price.

## The Budget Baseline

If you take a closer look on the budget that is the foundation of our price
calculations, there are three positions that make up more than two thirds of
all costs:

### 1) Location Lease

*15%*

### 2) Food and Beverages

*40%*

### 3) Compensation

*30%*

## Additional Costs

### 1) Merchandise

### 2) Safety Buffer

---

<marquee>**OLD LOL!**</marquee>

---

## The Journey towards the right Ticket Price

Surprisingly, pricing is one of the most complex conceptual problems we faced
during the ramp up. It is a tug war between planning for safety, providing a
great experience for all attendees and keeping the price low to be open to a
more diverse crowd of people.

The biggest cost-factor (nearly half of the ticket revenue) is spent on **lease
for the [location](https://www.cinenova.de/) and food including beverages**.

There should be healthy and genuinely good food for all attendees, which is why
we picked a caterer that provides us with regional and organic food throughout
the event. Therefore the biggest chunk in our budget is at the same time the
single most fixed item that can barely be scaled.

The second biggest position is **compensation of speakies and helpies**. We
decided on a solidarity compensation for everyone who helps us to make the
conference possible. That means, everyone gets the same compensation, be it a
speakie, a keynote speakie or a person helping with the doors.

The mentioned positions are tough to change since they represent core values of
our team and play an important aspect in the overall concept of the Think
About! Conference. At the same time do they cover over two thirds of the overal
cost.

## Rethinking our approach to Merchandise

As you might have noticed through a casual look on our [landing page](/en/), we
are huge fans of fancy and colorful illustrations. Naturally we have the urge
to live up to this by providing stylish merchandise articles to every attendee.
While we still stick to that idea we adhere to an approach that is different to
most conferences.

Instead of assuming that everyone needs a shirt, you can pick a shirt while
buying a ticket. Shirt cost 15 EUR each. By focusing on this approach, we gain
several benefits:

* Cost for merchandise production is shifted towards the individuals that
really want it instead of distributing it on the shoulders of everyone.
* We produce **less waste**. The probability is quite high that if someone
wants a shirt and pays for it that they will wear it in the future.

## Our Approach to Sponsoring

We will have some sponsors on our conference. These sponsors pay a certain
amount of money and in exchange get the chance to use our channels to advertise
for themselves -- e.g. having a logo on our website or even a small booth at
the venue.

Our main paradigm is to reduce the amount of sponsors to a bare minimum in
order to keep the event community-like and provide a meaningful sponsoring to
every company that participates.

We decided to slightly increase the number of sponsors compared to our initial
assumptions. This enables us to further shift a fraction of the overall cost
away from the admission fee.

## Reaching the Destination of our Journey

After spending a fair share of our time with our heads down on the budget we
arrived at the conclusion that 

that the cost factors mentioned above can be
leveraged to reduce the overall admission fee.

**This lead to a ticket price reduction of more than 20% (starting at 290
EUR)** which will be effective starting December 3rd. All tickets sold so far
will be partially reimbursed to make up the difference to the new ticket
prices.

## On the importance of User Feedback

To conclude we must say that those improvements where only possible because of
the fantastic feedback that reached us so far. Our hope is to get more and more
feedback throughout the road that lays ahead of us.

So in the spirit of user feedback, don't hesitate to drop us [a
message](mailto:kontakt@think-about.io) and let us know what you think. In
addition to that, you can [follow us on twitter](/goto/twitter), become a
member of [our meetup group](/goto/meetup) or [star us on
github](/goto/github).
