---
title: "Think About! in Times of a Pandemic"
tweet: "TODO"
author_twitter: "@Chrissi_Hldrbm"
author: Chrissi

---

**We heavy heartedly decided to cancel Think About! 2020**

Although it is the right and reasonable decision considering the current
situation with the Corona virus we are extremely sad that we have to share
these news with you.

READMORE

Many questions have been on our mind in the past few days. We followed the news
and have been in touch with the public health department in Cologne regularly.
The first people started reaching out to us with regard to whether the
event is taking place. That is why we started to discuss how we would like to
react and what that means for our conference.

Two aspects affected our decision:

   1. We take **your health and safety very seriously** and don’t want to put
anyone at risk. Right now we need to rely on trusted sources like the
Robert-Koch-Institute.
   2.  Pulling off an event like the Think About! is a tremendous effort -
measured in hours invested by the orga team and measured in money invested
upfront for hotel, travel and so on. Since we are a small company we have to
pay a lot of this upfront from our own pockets - many of the cost are not
refundable from a certain point on.

Considering these two factors led us to the decision to cancel the Think About!
2020. As said, we are **very sad and can’t put into words how we feel right now**
but we hope you understand the decision we've made.

**All attendees that bought a ticket and all sponsors will be reimbursed
entirely**. We will reach out to those affected by this individually.

The good news are: Think About! will be back in 2021 and we are planning to
continue with awesome meetups until then!

Stay healthy and safe, everyone <3

## What are your thoughts?

If you have any concers, ideas or recommendations for this unique situation
please don't hesitate to drop us [a message](mailto:kontakt@think-about.io) and
let us know what you think.
