# Think About! Our Code of Conduct {#coc}

All attendees, speakers, sponsors, organizers and volunteers at our conference
are required to agree with the following code of conduct. Our Awareness-Team
will enforce this code throughout the event. We expect cooperation from all
participants to help ensure a safe environment for everybody.

## The Quick Version

Our conference is dedicated to provide a harassment-free conference experience
for everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, age, sexual
orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, ethnicity,
religion (or lack thereof), or technology choices. We do not tolerate
harassment of conference participants in any form.

Sexual language and imagery is not appropriate for any conference venue,
including talks, workshops, parties, Twitter and other online media.  If talks
are related to sexuality exceptions can be made if this is discussed with the
organizers beforehand and is announced in advance.  Conference participants
violating these rules may be sanctioned or expelled from the conference without
a refund at the discretion of the conference’s Awareness-Team.

## The Less Quick Version

Harassment includes offensive verbal comments related to gender, gender
identity and expression, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical
appearance, body size, race, ethnicity, religion, technology choices, sexual
images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following,
harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of talks or other
events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately.

Sponsors are also subject to the anti-harassment policy. In particular,
sponsors should not use sexualised images, activities, or other material. Booth
staff (including volunteers) should not use sexualised
clothing/uniforms/costumes, or otherwise create a sexualised environment.

If a participant engages in harassing behavior, the conference’s Awareness-Team
may take any action they deem appropriate, including warning the offender or
expulsion from the conference with no refund.

If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have
any other concerns, please contact a member of conference staff or the
conference’s Awareness-team immediately.

The Awareness-team can be visually identified – details will be published here
in advance.  We expect participants to follow these rules at the conference
venues and conference-related social events.

Inspired by: [http://confcodeofconduct.com/](http://confcodeofconduct.com/)

# Our Awareness-Teams {#awareness}

To create a pleasant, safe and respectful Atmosphere for all participants of
the Think About!  conference we have two Awareness-Teams available during the
conference.  Awareness in this case means the consciousness or perception of
verbal, psychological or physical violations of personal boundaries.

The Teams consist of two people of different genders and are experienced in the
care and consultation of people who have experienced boundary-crossing
situations.  One team will be moving freely on the location, another one can be
reached at a fixed position which will be communicated in advance. They will
also be available via a phone number which will be published here as well.

All collaborators of the conference can enable the contact with them as well.

The awareness-team can warn offenders or exclude them from the conference with
no refund!

Further details about our Awareness-Structure and our conduct during incidents
will be published here in the future.

You can contact us before or after the conference as well!

The organization team can be reached via mail under the following addresses:

[chrissi@think-about.io](mailto:chrissi@think-about.io) ([GPG](/assets/chrissi.asc))  
[jakob@think-about.io](mailto:jakob@think-about.io) ([GPG](/assets/jakob.asc))  
[andreas@think-about.io](mailto:andreas@think-about.io) ([GPG](/assets/andreas.asc))  

External organizations can be reached as well – a list of recommendations will
be provided here soo

# Message of Empowerment {#empowerment}

You don't have to be able to hack NASA in order to be a part of the Think
About! conference. As long as you are considerate of others and intend to
learn, you have a place here..  You have the right to decide when, where and by
whom you want to be photographed or filmed.  If you prefer not to be
photographed or filmed at all – we provide colour-coded conference lanyards to
communicate your preferences.

You have the right to be treated fairly. Nobody hast he right to threaten you
or scare you. No matter how. Nobody is allowed to blackmail you, treat you
poorly or hurt you. You decide what goes beyond your limits, nobody else.

You have the right to decide how close people can be to you. Nobody is allowed
to touch you, massage you, caress you, kiss you or push you to do so to someone
else.

You have the right to say NO and to resist when someone oversteps your borders,
hurts your feelings or those of someone else! You can say NO with facial
expressions, words or body language. Even if you have said YES before.

Adapted from Amyna e.V., Institute for prevention of sexual abuse via
[Geheimorganisation.org](http://diversity.geheim.org/) at the 34C3. 

# Respecting Data Sovereignty {#privacy}

To conduct this conference, we have to store a certain amount of data about
attendees, speakers and sponsors. We believe, that the personal data of
individuals should be respected as a private good -- so our promise to you is
that we will never share your personal data beyond the minimal technical
necessity. That would be:

* Storing it at out ticket provider ([Pretix](https://pretix.eu) in Germany)
* Giving payment information to the payment provider selected during checkout
  -- unless you wire the money via regular bank transaction
* Storing it in our conference management tool Frab (hosted at
  [Hetzner](https://hetzner.de) in Germany)
* Storing it in our newsletter management tool Mailtrain if you subscribed to
  our newsletter (hosted at [Hetzner](https://hetzner.de) in Germany)

We will neither sell your data nor give it away to any third partner without
your explicit consent, not even sponsors.

# Disclaimer

This document is a work in progress and will be updated from time to time.  In
case you want to participate we welcome you to get in touch with us and send us
your feedback or your suggestions.
